---
edited: 2019-02-24
---

Out of all things, this is the worst and the best subject of curiosity I have so far. While the lack of answer haunts me everyday, it also acts as a drive for one. Here I'll be laying down how my question started, and how my progress towards the answer is.

Per norm, let me briefly explain what consciousness is, at least what it is to me. Consciousness is the ability to question such thing. Being unbound and free to make choices of my own. To realize that I exist, existed, and will exist. But let's think of a rock. A rock doesn't think. It does not have a network of neurons, let alone made of cells. Depending on its type, it may be made of calcium carbonates, quartz, or whatever. I don't study rocks, nor do I want enough to know what they are made of, but I know for a fact that they aren't made of cells. Since we define things to be living by knowing whether they are made of cells, or have a structure of one, a rock must not be a living thing. And without living, it can not be conscious.

Then, is a bacteria conscious? As a unicellular organism, it can't have a network of neurons. (Though, huh. Now that I think about it, a bacteria with a flagellum _could_ look like a neuron). But jokes aside, it obviously doesn't function as a neuron let alone being a eukaryotic cell. However, just because it doesn't have a brain, doesn't mean it can't be conscious. It reacts to nutrients, warmth, moisture, and reproduces, just like us humans. They seem to be making the decisions to do such actions, so they must be conscious. So consciousness doesn't have to do with thinking. It's must be about being able to make choices. A rock still can't do that, so it is still, unconscious.

The very basic structure of a bacteria we learn in middle school is a one with a flagellum, bits of fur sticking out of its cell membrane perhaps surrounded by weird protein wax, a single loose chromosome floating in the nutrient rich cytoplasm, and lastly, the key feature of a bacteria, a plasmid. These are the key organelles that allow the bacteria to function. They must be the key to consciousness. Let's first take a look at the genetic materials.

The DNA is the most complex and advanced program on this planet. Little side note, the DNA is not a storage device, just in case there are people who are misinformed like I was in the beginning. The DNA never stores any new data from the environment. Think of AlphaGo, or Deep Thought. They consist of a program, **and** a storage device, both separate of each other. The program simply uses the data in the storage device, and calculates how to use a data given by the environment or its storage device. It never changes its own program to become better at playing Go or Chess. It's just that the more games they play, the more data to analyse and find the highest probability of winning. Coming back on track, the DNA is programmed just in a way that maximizes its survival. A polymerase transcripts an mRNA (and other RNAs) only when the surrounding doesn't lock the lock in place.

Certain groups say that consciousness is something never to be explained by science. I find that funny, since all of what science do is explaining.
