---
title: I Didn't Expect To Study Computer Science
summary: I had this detailed plan of getting a PhD in cellular agriculture. I was so dedicated to pursue bioengineering that I spent an extra year to join one of the best bioengineering school in Korea with a decent scholarship. "This is it," I thought. "I'm finally going to study exactly what I want to study." Now, it’s 2023, and I’m an international student in the US studying computer science with more than $40k in debt. How did I get here?
isDraft: true
---

I had this detailed plan of getting a PhD in cellular agriculture through a Fellowship at Tufts University. I was so dedicated to pursue bioengineering that I spent an extra year to join one of the best bioengineering school in Korea with a decent scholarship. "This is it," I thought. "I'm finally going to study exactly what I want to study."

Now, it’s 2023, and I’m an international student in the US studying computer science with more than $40k in debt.

_queue music_

I went by most of my life without considering computer science as my major. In fact, I went by most of my childhood without thinking much at all. I just did whatever I enjoyed whether I was good at them or not. My earliest interest include computer games like many kids, but where I really invested my time in back in primary school was in drawing comics. During class, my friends and I would share a sheet of paper or an exercise book and pass it around after drawing a cell or two. It'd create an unpredictable, random story we enjoyed. We'd also draw short comics on our own and share it with each other. I eventually took this more seriously and started a long term comic with characters and story inspired from my previous drawings. There was not much of a story, but the characters were based around my friends, which was good enough for my classmates to enjoy. This lasted for about 2 years, and I never completed the comic as I grew more conscious about the lacking story and drawing skills.

However, I didn't stop drawing entirely. Creating RPG games on books became popular among my friends around 5th grade; the creator of the game would be the 'game master', who drew and erased sceneries and characters to simulate gameplay based on the narratives the players built on it. I never played DnD, but I imagine this is somewhat like that. I made a sandbox game where you start on an island, build your base, and invade other islands with the army you've built from your starting island. It was kind of like RimWorld, except much shittier. This also got pretty popular among my friends and we played almost every break we had between classes. Unintentionally, this was the first time I made any kind of money. The cosmetic upgrades I offered at the game shop sold for real money, and my friends actually bought them. That’s right - I invented microtransactions in 2008.

As my age finally hit double digits, internet became a little more accessible enough for my tiny hands to surf. I read cringey Korean romance novels and tried writing some myself. I attempted to make skits without knowing what a video editor is and solely relied on pause/resume button on my phone camera and recording entirely until it was perfect. At one point, I discovered YouTube and got hooked on stick figure animations. Animation vs Animator inspired me to quick-tap pause/resume button to record stop-motion animations until I learned how to animate using Microsoft PowerPoint. (Thanks, cstyle12 (I'm sure that is his name, but it seems like he deleted all the videos)). Eventually, I learned to animate on Macromedia Flash, thanks to artists like Hyun. I spent a decent amount of time learning keyframe interpolation, and various animation techniques, and even made a 15 second long clip of a guy fighting a wall. I never pursued this interest any further for reasons I don't remember.

It didn’t take long for me to discover the very first Minecraft video I watched, which I weirdly remember to this day: It was the COD zombie mod showcase by CaptainSparklez. I eventually discovered other YouTubers like AntVenom, YogsCast, Sky, EditZP, and many others that I don’t even remember anymore. I watched their playthroughs religiously, but at some point, I started to find slight frustrations. They were either missing the obvious or lacked game knowledge. They weren't being as efficient as they could be. I began to believe I could play better than them. To prove it, I started my own YouTube channel and show people how you truly play Minecraft. The best player.

That is how I ended up with a stupid name for channel - ZeBest - and started making Minecraft videos. The word “career” wasn’t on my mind when I started it, but it was the first time I actively tried to make something for the world to see. I rarely make videos now, but my subscriber count peaked around 5000 and I even made revenue. I didn't make a lot, but it was enough to buy games once a month for friends who had cash in their hands but couldn’t ask their parents. I even bought myself Minecraft, the game I used to make money by playing on a pirated copy. It was also the first time in my life I was able to give my mom money.

YouTube was an incredible experience, but my channel was fragile. Despite all the effort I put in my videos, most of them performed poorly. Vast majority of my views and subscribers came from a handful of videos, with more than half of it coming from a single video I made on a Minecraft Slenderman map. When I decided to leave my network partner, TGN, all the best performing videos were suddenly taken down, making me really realize that I wasn't a great entertainer. Turns out, being fun isn't easy.
