---
published: 2017-06-03
isArchive: true
---

I'm not an elite student. I may be considered so here in this school, but that's just a neglectable portion of a larger ocean. In the end, I'll be competing against all high school students in the country in CSAT(Korean version of SAT). So should I be called an elite student, I must first consistently beat around 580,000 students in the exams. There are about 630,000 examinees each year, so that would make me top 8% in that particular subject. 580,000 is indeed a lot of people. Some might say that they'd be happy with beating just 300,000 students, which is just about average, or maybe a bit more. In Korea, however, many do not desire anywhere lower than the top 11%.

Korea follows a relative ranking system for most of their education, where you get a rank per subject depending on how many people are under you. For example, if you are the top 4% of all examinee, you are given 'Rank 1′. If you are the next 7%, you are given 'Rank 2′. So beating 580,000 students in CSAT would give me Rank 2. Surprisingly, that is the lowest rank many people wish to have. Any rank lower is undesirable. All the jokes you heard in 2012 about Asians being unhappy about getting grades other than A+, they are right. Why is that?

It is first because of this requirement called '**CSAT minimum rank**'. To explain what that is, let's take [Korea University](https://www.korea.ac.kr/mbshome/mbs/en/index.do), one of the most prominent universities in Korea, as an example. To qualify to study in their Department of Biotechnology, one must at least have ranks for 3 subjects, excluding Korean history, to add up to 6. That means, for example, I must at least get Rank 2 for English, Rank 2 for Maths, and Rank 2 for Sciences(that is two subjects, but they round the ranks off and considered them as one). Or, 1 for Korean, 2 for English, and 3 for Maths. Whatever ranks I get, as long as I can add ranks of 3 subjects and have it be less than 7, I have a better chance to qualify.

_Wait, 'better chance'? Isn't that all you need to do?_ No. There are school activities to actively work on such as clubs and volunteer work, numerous books to read, school assessments and exams to study, self-introductory essay to write, interview after admission phase 1, and bunch of other things to do. All that counts in to university admission.

The thing is, we don't know how much we need to do those things. Life isn't a RPG game asking you to kill exactly 150 slimes. You got to do '_**well**_'. What is '**_well_**'? What activities do we need to do so that universities would accept me? What club should I join and which would give me the most benefit? What activities are others doing? What should I do to compete against them? How do I balance all the extra activities I do with school studies? **I mean, am I doing alright? Will I be able to admit to the university?** This is why the joke appeared. Because of the uncertainty of our future, and because we need to defeat one another to have a better chance, we compete fiercely and painfully. The competition here isn't a child's game. Every moment I spend playing League of Legends, or write a pointless blog about how imprisoning Korean education is, I'm falling in my ranking. Someone else is spending that exact time solving questions in orthographic projection. Ten thousands are. Some are already better than others. And there is no stop to this baffling amount of studies. The better people become at solving the questions, the harder the exams get. That is because the examiners try their best at giving the top 4% to only 4% of the examinee(If you don't understand the difference, imagine 5% of the population getting 100 for Maths. Rank 1, which is suppose to be the top 4% would consist of more than the top 4%). The fact that the system doesn't allow 'good enough' to exist, but only 'better than', tightly confines our abilities and thinking to solving exam questions faster and more efficient with no breathe to take. This isn't simply education. This is war.

Of course, the rank requirements are lower in less popular universities, and there are admission options that doesn't even take CSAT ranks in to account. Not everyone needs to go to the most prominent universities in Korea, but many wishes to. I mean, you'd want to admit to MIT if you could, right? Not all, but to many, that is the key for entering prominent companies. Which is again, the key to having a stable income for a living. Stable income and a stable freedom, both which we don't have and never sure if we ever will have, is what we really want to ensure in the end. No, universities are no longer symbol of higher education. They are merely another hurdle to jump over to have a good life. Yes, in the end, what we want is to live doing what we want to do without pressure. Or at least, spend a life not worrying about the next meal I can't eat. We study because we want to stop worrying. We study, not for the sake of studying, not because of our thirst to explore the unknown, not because we have a dream to achieve within a field, not because we want to contribute to the world. Not everyone is free enough to become a hero, and not everyone has a magnificent goal. We don't mind if we won't be remembered, we don't mind if we leave being a non-existent existence. We just want to live safe. Why is that so hard to achieve?
