## Determinism is real. Free will is an illusion. For now.

Determinism is the belief that everything that has happened, is happening, and will happen, has been decided since the beginning of time. In other words, fate is real. This is the one of my two core beliefs, and my most frustrating belief of all. I do not want to believe this to be the case and frequently wonder how the world could be otherwise. But so far, with my limited knowledge and insight, I can't think otherwise.

Everybody agrees how dominos should work. We don't expect a brick to freeze mid-fall or drop on its own without outside intervention. Their motion and properties are governed by physics, after all. Everything is fated to behave according to its laws.

Same goes for chemical reactions. We don't have a perfect understanding yet, but we have incredible understanding of countless patterns and can predict the result of a given chemical reaction. No atoms can change the results of a reaction and reject the laws of chemistry. Everything is fated to behave according to its laws.

It's when this argument is applied to human free-will when everyone becomes skeptical. Somehow, we have the power to bend the laws of chemistry and physics and make things happen the way we want them to.

In a way, I agree. In fact, there's nothing more certain than my will do act a certain way. You can tell me I'm dreaming. You can show me that the whole world is a virtual construct and all of my memories were synthesized by drugs and psychosis. But you can never tell me I'm not conscious and exist. _I think, therefore I am._

The biggest irony is that, despite all this, our best method of discovering truth - science - continues to prove otherwise. We've been aware of chemicals that can manipulate our vision, emotions, memories, and decision-making. More recently, we discovered the reasons why certain chemicals have such effects. We suppress depression with antidepressant and administer antianxiety drugs to people suffering anxiety, effectively manipulating the way they feel and think. We also know how to make empirical measurements of our emotions and how to evoke each and one of them. With enough time, it'll be possible to predict one's action and feelings. The more we continue to understand how our body works, the more we find reasons to believe that there is no special power giving us control in how we feel, think, and act.

Something I like to tell others when it comes to this argument is talking about what they like. Think of anything you like - a color, for example. Why do you like it? You might tell me it makes you feel a certain way. Alright, why do you feel that way about the color? We can keep going back and forth looking for the reason for the preceding reason, but at some point, you will answer, "I don't know, it just is." You have discovered that all the things you like and prefer are out of your understanding and control. You can't choose what you are attracted to, enjoy, fear, or hate. You were born with them; molded by experiences. Now think about any action. Eating, dancing, programming - any one. If you ask enough questions about why you do them, you will either support it with something you like - which we proved that you have no control of - or a plain, "I don't know, I just do it." In other words, you have no control in your actions. Without scientific understanding of what may empower free-will, free-will logically doesn't make sense.

One may argue that they don't always do what they like to do. Sometimes you're forced to do something against your will, or share something with another person instead of having it all for yourself. There are so many scenarios where it clearly feels like you have a choice to do what makes them unhappy and chose to do so. But the truth is, you took that action because it was the best decision regardless of whether you ended up unhappy. You'd rather groan and do your homework than deal with the consequences of not doing it. You doom-scroll TikTok instead of doing housework not because it's the best choice, but what your short-term subconscious decision-making determined that it'll make you the happiest. Your judgement may be flawed; you might not have thought much at all; and you might have regrets in the future, but you ultimately are incapable of doing anything but what you believe is the best for you at the given time. You do not have a choice. There is only one option, and alternatives are an illusion.

## Skepticism is true.

## Consciousness can be replicated in machines.
