---
edited: 2019-02-24
---

I'm a 18 years old high school student who barely has any knowledge about politics, economics, and any business/corporation related fields. If you are here to read a polished, well-thought, detailed idea, then I suggest you leave. This is possibly an impossible idea, but I believe an idea similar to this needs to be followed in the future. In fact, I don't see a happy world without it.

As a empty-headed man, I know of two economic systems of countries: Communism, and Capitalism. At the surface, Communism is the best. Everyone gets an equal share of everything, and everyone is working towards the progress of the country. However, Capitalism is dominantly far more better than Communism in practice, as the world isn't full of energetic, mundane people who wants to work and earn equally. In addition, different jobs have their own difficulty, thus equal share becomes unfair.

I'm not sure if the economic system is wrong, or the political system is, or the social norms, or the function of society. But for some reason, as time passes, more and more people say that rich gets richer and the poor gets poorer. I personally don't fully agree on this(which makes me think that I have little to no knowledge about the world, thus this post is garbage), because I am poor as well. By that, I mean my family is officially recognized as 'low-income family'(기초수급자) by our country, Korea. This is even more personal, but we are also a family with a single parent, so we receive two types of situational benefits. To keep it short, our country's education is free till middle school, and fees for higher education can be supported by scholarship programs and situational benefits given by the country, if you meet the requirements. The country is also working on fair and free education system where no extra academies or personal tuition are required. Seeing from this, as long as one works hard and manages through university, a decent job shouldn't be too hard to get. Working hard can get you anywhere, as my teacher tells us.

But of course, not all poor families are like me, and not all countries are like Korea. Not all of what my teacher tells me are right, and even more to what I think I know about the world outside of my high school. There is a problem with the economic system that I am not aware of, and it needs to be fixed. Just by hearing that the financial disparity between two classes are getting bigger, and that all elections have the candidates saying they will increase taxes for the high class, money distribution seems to one of the cause of the disparity(although, this is probably not true, since they are likely saying that to get the popular vote from voters who are uneducated in economics and politics like me to vote for them, while not solving the core problem). Out of many, robots taking over jobs is one, and I believe this factor will increasingly become more problematic over time.

So how about
